Instructor: So now
let's look at a script
that uses two different
for loops in two different ways.
It starts in the usual way:
init(), setTempo()
and defining four different
variables to represent
four different sounds
we'll be using
throughout our script.
Here's the first "for" loop:
"for (var measure = 1;
measure <9; measure++)."
So the goal of this "for" loop
is for each measure
that it's iterating through
with these two different
fitMedia() function calls,
to put one drum sound
on the first half of each
of those measures
and a different drum sound
on the second half
of each of those measures.
To figure out more
about how it's working,
let's build a little table
that keeps track
of what's happening
on each iteration
of the "for" loop.
So the measure variable
first equals 1, then 2,
then 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.
The loop stops
when it gets to 9.
And the first fitMedia()
call places the sound
drums1 on track1
from measure to measure
plus 0.5.
So in other words,
the first iteration
goes from one to 1.5.
That's the first half
of measure 1.
The next time,
from 2 to 2.5,
that's the first half
of measure 2.
Then 3 to 3.5, 4 to 4.5,
and so on and so forth.
The second fitMedia()
function call puts
a different sound, drums2,
on track 2,
starting at "measure + 0.5"
and ending in "measure +1."
So in the first iteration,
that'll be from 1.5 to 2.
That's from halfway
through measure 1
to the start of measure 2.
The next times goes
from 2.5 to 3,
starting from halfway through
measure 2,
ending at the beginning
of measure 3.
Next time, from 3.5 to 4,
the next time 4.5 to 5,
and so on.
It may be easier actually
to just look at this
in the DAW view
to see what's happening
as a result
of this loop executing.
Each measure we can see
one drum sound ending up
on the first half
of each measure.
And the other sound
from the second fitMedia() call,
ending up
on the second half
of each measure.
After this "for" loop there's
two more fitMedia() calls.
These aren't part of any loop.
They're simply putting
the guitar and synth sounds
on tracks 3 and 4.
The guitar sound
starts at measure 1.
The synth sound doesn't start
until measure 5.
And again, if we go back
to the DAW view
you can see this clearly
looking at tracks 3 and 4.
Now I want to move
on to the second
"for" loop here,
which is setting
the panning on each
of these tracks.
Now panning
is a simple way
of setting how much
a track's sound
is coming through
the left speaker versus
the right speaker,
or your left headphone ear
versus your right
headphone ear.
In EarSketch, we use
the constant "PAN"
for the pan effect
and the parameter
"LEFT_RIGHT."
And when we set it to -100,
that's the lowest value
we can set it to,
which means send it
all out of the left speaker.
We set it to +100,
that's the maximum value
if we say send it
all out of the right speaker.
And here's a few example
function calls to setEffect().
Here in this first one,
we're setting panning
for track 1 to -100.
So we're sending
track 1 entirely
to the left speaker.
The second example here,
we're setting track 4 to 0,
that's center PAN.
In other words,
evenly distributed
to the left and to the right.
And the final example here,
we're setting the panning
for track 2 to +100,
so that's going all the way
to the right speaker.
Now let's come back
and look at this loop.
Inside the loop—
well first of all,
our loop variable is track.
So "for track = 1 while
track <5, track ++,"
we're setting
the panAmount each time
we go through this loop.
How much do we want
that track to be panned
to the left or the right?
And then we're calling
setEffect() for that track
and setting it
to the given panAmount.
So again, let's build
a little table to keep
track of exactly
what's going on here.
Our loop variable track
is set to 1, then 2,
then 3, and then 4.
And when it gets to 5,
the loop stops.
Then, the panAmount equation
here references "(track - 1)."
So let's track what that is
each time we go through.
First time,
track-1 = 1-1, or zero.
The next time, it's equal
to 2-1, that's 1.
Next time 3-1, so it's 2.
The final time 4-1, so it's 3.
Now let's look
at that entire equation.
The first time the loop executes
it's 200 times 0
divided by 3 minus 100.
200 times 0 is 0.
Zero divided by three,
still zero.
Zero minus 100,
minus 100.
So track 1 therefore,
gets set at PAN value
of -100, all the way
to the left speaker.
The next time it executes
it's 200 times 1
divided by 3 minus 100.
So 200 times 1 is 200,
200 divided by 3 is about 66,
66 minus 100 is about
negative 33.
So it's getting
panned a little bit
to the left this time.
The next time we go through
it's 200 times 2
divided by 3 minus 100.
So that's going to be
about positive 33
or a little bit to the right.
And the final time,
it's 200 times 3
divided by 3 minus 100.
Well 200 times 3 divided by 3
is just 200.
Then 200 minus 100 is 100,
so it's panned all the
way to the right.
And again, if we look
at the DAW view here,
we can see track 1
panned all the way
to the left, minus 100,
here track two negative 33,
track three positive 33,
and track four positive 100.
If we listen to this,
we're going to hear each track
in a different spot in the left
to right stereo space.
[upbeat electronic music
shifting from left to right]